The President: Hi, everybody.
Yesterday, we learned that
our businesses created
another 118,000 new
jobs in September.
That makes 67 straight
months of job creation, and
13.2 million new
jobs in all.
But we would be doing even
better if we didn't have to
keep dealing with crises in
Congress every few months.
And especially at a time
when the global economy is
softening, our own growth
could slow if Congress
doesn't do away with
harmful austerity measures.
Now, on Wednesday, more
than half of Republicans in
Congress voted to shut down
the government for the
second time in two years.
Fortunately, there were
enough votes in both parties
to pass a last-minute bill
to keep the government open
for another ten weeks.
Unfortunately, that gimmick
only sets up another
shutdown threat two weeks
before Christmas.
Look, that's not the way
America should operate.
It just kicks the can down
the road without solving any
problems or doing any
long-term planning
for the future.
And that's why I will not
sign another shortsighted,
short-term spending bill
like the one Congress
sent me this week.
Here's why.
A few years ago, both
parties agreed to put in
place harmful, automatic
cuts that make no
distinction between
spending we don't need
and spending we do.
Those cuts have actually
kept our economy from
growing faster.
Even worse, they're
actually undermining
the middle class.
Here's one example.
If we don't undo these
mindless cuts, then next
year, we'll be funding our
kids' education at the same
levels per pupil we did in
the year 2000.
Compared to my budget, that
would be like cutting
federal funding for 4,500
schools, 17,500 teachers and
aides, 1.9 million students.
That's not good for our kids
or our economy.
It's a prescription for
American decline.
And it shouldn't happen.
We should invest in things
like education today, or
we'll pay the
price tomorrow.
Congress should do its job,
stop kicking the can down
the road, and pass a serious
budget rather than flirt
with another shutdown.
A serious budget is one that
keeps America strong through
our military, our law
enforcement; that keeps
America generous through
caring for our veterans and
our seniors; that keeps
America competitive by
educating our kids
and our workers.
That's what I want to
work with serious people
in both parties to achieve.
Because that's how we'll
build on the progress of 13
million new jobs, and help
the middle class get ahead.
Thanks everybody, and have a
great weekend.